Add docs on how to migrate from Gatsby. (#17491)
vercel/next.js: docs/migrating/from-gatsby.md

---
description: Learn how to transition an existing Gatsby project to Next.js.
---

# Migrating from Gatsby

> This guide will help you understand how to transition from an existing Gatsby project to Next.js. Since both frameworks are built on top of React and share similar ideas, the transition can be broken down into a series of steps. First, let's talk about running the application.

Reviewer: This is missing a promise statement / value proposition. Why do I want to migrate away from Gatsby? What does switching to Next.js give me?

Some things you can play with:

1. Choose SSG **or** SSR, instead of only SSG
1. API Routes
1. Faster development server
1. Incremental static (re-)generation

Author: Addressed 👍

## Local Development

> Gatsby applications start using `gatsby develop` and run at `localhost:8000`. To create and start a production build, you run `gatsby build && gatsby serve`. Your compiled code is located at `public`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Gatsby applications start using `gatsby develop` and run at `localhost:8000`. To create and start a production build, you run `gatsby build && gatsby serve`. Your compiled code is located at `public/`.
```

> Next applications start using `next` (typically scripted as `yarn dev`) and run at `localhost:3000`. To create a start a production build, run `next build && next start`. Your compiled code is located at `.next`. You are free to change `package.json` script names as you like.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next applications start using `next dev` and run at `localhost:3000`. To create a start a production build, run `next build && next start`. Your compiled code is located at `.next/`.
```

> The first step towards migrating to Next.js is to uninstall all related Gatsby packages and install `next`. Do not remove `react` or `react-dom` from your `package.json`.

Reviewer: We need to show updating the `scripts` in `package.json`!

Author: Done 👍

```bash
yarn add next
```

## Serving Files

> The `public` folder holds static assets in Next, instead of containing the compiled output. Update your `.gitignore` file to ensure `public` is tracked with source control and delete your existing Gatsby output. You can now move files from Gatsby's `static` folder to `public`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `public/` folder holds static assets in Next.js, instead of containing the compiled output. Update your `.gitignore` file to ensure `public/` is tracked in source control and delete your existing Gatsby output. You can now move files from Gatsby's `static/` folder to `public/`.
```

## Creating Routes

> Both Gatsby and Next support a `pages` folder, which uses [file-system based routing](/docs/routing/introduction). Gatsby's directory is `src/pages`, while Next can support `pages` with or without [src](/docs/advanced-features/src-directory).

Reviewer: IMO "while Next can support `pages` with or without [src](/docs/advanced-features/src-directory)" is unnecessary confusion. Let's just tell them they can use `src/pages/`.

## Styling

With Gatsby, global CSS imports and included in `gatsby-browser.js`. With Next, you should create a [custom `_app.js`](/docs/advanced-features/custom-app) for global CSS. When migrating, you can copy your CSS imports over directly and update the relative file path, if necessary. Next.js has [built-in CSS support](/docs/basic-features/built-in-css-support).

## Links

The Gatsby `Link` and Next.js [`Link`](/docs/api-reference/next/link>) component have a slightly different API. First, you will need to update any import statements referencing `Link` from Gatsby to:

```js
import Link from 'next/link'
```

Next, you can find and replace usages of `to="/route"` with `href="/route"`.

## Data Fetching

The largest difference between Gatsby and Next.js is how data fetching is implemented. Gatsby is opinionated with GraphQL being the default strategy for retrieving data across your application. With Next.js, you get to choose which strategy you want (GraphQL is one supported option).

> Gatsby pages have a `pageQuery` export that will make a GraphQL request and forward the information to the React component. This may include local data, remote data, and information about the site configuration. Gatsby only allows the creation of static pages. With Next.js, you can choose on a [per-page basis](/docs/basic-features/pages) which [data fetching strategy](/docs/basic-features/data-fetching) you want. For example, if you want to generate a static site, you'd export `getStaticProps` / `getStaticPaths` inside the page rather than using `pageQuery`. For example:

Reviewer 2: afaik the query export can be named anything you want, the important part is the `graphql` template tag. also, "graphql request" is maybe a bit misleading. it's about querying gatsby's data store.

Author: Good suggestions! I will update this 🙏

  const realSlug = slug.replace(/\\.md$/, '')
  const fullPath = join(postsDirectory, `${realSlug}.md`)
  const fileContents = fs.readFileSync(fullPath, 'utf8')
  const { data, content } = matter(fileContents)
  const date = format(parseISO(data.date), 'MMMM dd, yyyy')

  return { slug: realSlug, frontmatter: { ...data, date }, content }
}

export function getAllPosts() {
  const slugs = fs.readdirSync(postsDirectory)
  const posts = slugs.map((slug) => getPostBySlug(slug))

  return posts
}
```

## Site Configuration

With Gatsby, your site's metadata (name, description, etc) is located inside `gatsby-config.js`. This is then exposed through the GraphQL API and consumed through a `pageQuery` or a static query inside a component.

With Next.js, we recommend creating a config file similar to below. You can then import this file anywhere without having to use GraphQL to access your site's metadata.

```js
// src/config.js

export default {
  title: 'Starter Blog',
  author: {
    name: 'Lee Robinson',
    summary: 'who loves Next.js.',
  },
  description: 'A starter blog converting Gatsby -> Next.',
  social: {
    twitter: 'leeerob',
  },
}
```

## Search Engine Optimization

> Most Gatsby examples use `react-helmet` to assist with adding `meta` tags for proper SEO. With Next.js, we recommend using `[next/head](</docs/api-reference/next/head>)` to add `meta` tags to your `<head />` element. For example, here's part of an SEO component with Gatsby:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most Gatsby examples use `react-helmet` to assist with adding `meta` tags for proper SEO. With Next.js, we recommend using [`next/head`](</docs/api-reference/next/head>) to add `meta` tags to your `<head />` element. For example, here's part of an SEO component with Gatsby:
```

---
description: Learn how to transition an existing Gatsby project to Next.js.
---

# Migrating from Gatsby

This guide will help you understand how to transition from an existing Gatsby project to Next.js. Since both frameworks are built on top of React, the transition can be broken down into a series of steps. Migrating to Next.js will allow you to:

> - Choose which [data fetching](/docs/basic-features/data-fetching) strategy you want on a per-page basis (instead of only SSG)

Reviewer 3: Let's not use `SSG` here. Right now we don't mention SSG anywhere in our docs and this shouldn't be the first place we use it.

> This guide will help you understand how to transition from an existing Gatsby project to Next.js. Since both frameworks are built on top of React, the transition can be broken down into a series of steps. Migrating to Next.js will allow you to:
> 
> - Choose which [data fetching](/docs/basic-features/data-fetching) strategy you want on a per-page basis (instead of only SSG)
> - Use [Incremental Static Regeneration](/docs/basic-features/data-fetching#incremental-static-regeneration) to update _existing_ pages by re-rendering them in the background as traffic comes in
> - Use [API Routes](/docs/api-routes/introduction)
> 
> And more! First, let's talk about running a Next.js application.

Reviewer 4: I think this might be a bit cleaner / more concise:

```suggestion
This guide will help you understand how to transition from an existing Gatsby project to Next.js. Migrating to Next.js will allow you to:

- Choose which [data fetching](/docs/basic-features/data-fetching) strategy you want on a per-page basis
- Use [Incremental Static Regeneration](/docs/basic-features/data-fetching#incremental-static-regeneration) to update _existing_ pages by re-rendering them in the background as traffic comes in
- Use [API Routes](/docs/api-routes/introduction)

And more! Let’s walk through a series of steps to complete the migration.
```

Reviewer 4: Note that you can use `.md` when writing links. `.md` will be stripped during compilation. This will make links within GitHub repo work correctly.

Author: Good to know!

> 

Reviewer 4: Also, I strongly recommend linking to https://github.com/leerob/gatsby-to-nextjs/pull/1 as early as possible in this document. I think this PR is very helpful but no one will notice it if you put it at the end.

Author: I liked the suggestions about including diffs early – I've added those 👍

> ## Local Development

Reviewer 4: I don’t understand why the next two paragraphs mention how to create a production build when the section title is "Local Development". The next few paragraphs are talking about updating `package.json` and installing dependencies, so I think we should say so in the title.

```suggestion
## Updating `package.json` and installing dependencies
```

Gatsby applications start using `gatsby develop` and run at `localhost:8000`. To create and start a production build, you run `gatsby build && gatsby serve`. Your compiled code is located at `public/`.

> Next applications start using `next dev` and run at `localhost:3000`. To create a start a production build, run `next build && next start`. Your compiled code is located at `.next/`.

Reviewer 3: I don't think we want anyone to try these in their terminal (because it won't work)

```suggestion
Next applications start using `next dev` and run at `localhost:3000`. To create a start a production build, you run `next build && next start`. Your compiled code is located at `.next/`.
```

Reviewer 3: We may want to paraphrase this a bit different, to make it feel more of an explanation than a call to action.

> The first step towards migrating to Next.js is to uninstall all related Gatsby packages and install `next`. Do not remove `react` or `react-dom` from your `package.json`. Here's an example `package.json`:

Reviewer 4: I think we’d want to reorganize the above paragraphs a bit. What do you think about something like this?

---

The first step towards migrating to Next.js is to update `package.json` and dependencies. You should:

- Remove all Gatsby-related packages (but keep `react` and `react-dom`).
- Install `next`.
- Add Next.js related commands to `scripts`. One is `next dev`, which runs a development server at `localhost:3000`. You should also add `next build` and `next start` for creating and starting a production build.

Here's an example `package.json`:

Reviewer 4: I think it’d also be helpful if you could link to the `package.json` diff in your PR:

https://github.com/leerob/gatsby-to-nextjs/pull/1/files#diff-b9cfc7f2cdf78a7f4b91a753d10865a2

```json
{
  "scripts": {

>     "dev": "next",

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    "dev": "next dev",
```

Author: I don't think this is necessary, correct?

Reviewer 3: Same result, but if you say that `next dev` is used to run Next.js, then better be consistent to avoid confusion.

Author: Interesting. Most of the examples I've seen just use `next`. I'd prefer to be consistent with the docs, so I'm good with it!

    "build": "next build",
    "start": "next start"
  },
  "dependencies": {
    "next": "latest",
    "react": "latest",
    "react-dom": "latest"
  }
}
```

> ## Serving Files
> 
> The `public/` folder holds static assets in Next.js, instead of containing the compiled output. Update your `.gitignore` file to ensure `public/` is tracked in source control and delete your existing Gatsby output. You can now move files from Gatsby's `static/` folder to `public/`.

Reviewer 4: This is good, but I think it can be a bit more direct if you use bullets. Also, you’d also want to mention adding `.next` to `.gitignore`.

```suggestion
## Static Assets and Compiled Output

Gatsby uses the `public` directory for the compiled output, whereas Next.js uses it for static assets. Here are the steps for migration:

- Remove `.cache/` and `public` from `.gitignore` and delete both directories.
- Rename Gatsby’s `static` directory as `public`.
- Add `.next` to `.gitignore`.
```

Reviewer 4: It might help to link to this diff:

https://github.com/leerob/gatsby-to-nextjs/pull/1/files#diff-a084b794bc0759e7a6b77810e01874f2

## Creating Routes

> Both Gatsby and Next support a `pages` folder, which uses [file-system based routing](/docs/routing/introduction). Gatsby's directory is `src/pages`, which is also [supported by Next.js](/docs/advanced-features/src-directory).
> 
> Gatsby creates dynamic routes using the `createPages` API inside of `gatsby-node.js`. With Next, we can use [Dynamic Routes](/docs/routing/dynamic-routes) inside of `pages` to achieve the same effect. Rather than having a `template` folder, you can use the React component inside your dynamic route file. For example:

Reviewer 4: Let’s use `directory` over `folder`:

```suggestion
Both Gatsby and Next support a `pages` directory, which uses [file-system based routing](/docs/routing/introduction). Gatsby's directory is `src/pages`, which is also [supported by Next.js](/docs/advanced-features/src-directory).

Gatsby creates dynamic routes using the `createPages` API inside of `gatsby-node.js`. With Next, we can use [Dynamic Routes](/docs/routing/dynamic-routes) inside of `pages` to achieve the same effect. Rather than having a `template` directory, you can use the React component inside your dynamic route file. For example:
```

- **Gatsby:** `createPages` API inside `gatsby-node.js` for each blog post, then have a template file at `src/templates/blog-post.js`.

> - **Next:** Create `pages/blog/[slug].js` which contains the blog post template. The value of `slug` is accessible through a [query parameter](/docs/routing/dynamic-routes). For example, the route `/blog/first-post` would forward the query object `{ 'slug': 'first-post' }` to `pages/blog/[slug].js`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- **Next:** Create `pages/blog/[slug].js` which contains the blog post template. The value of `slug` is accessible through a [query parameter](/docs/routing/dynamic-routes.md). For example, the route `/blog/first-post` would forward the query object `{ 'slug': 'first-post' }` to `pages/blog/[slug].js` ([learn more here](/docs/basic-features/data-fetching.md#getstaticpaths-static-generation`)).
```

## Styling

> With Gatsby, global CSS imports and included in `gatsby-browser.js`. With Next, you should create a [custom `_app.js`](/docs/advanced-features/custom-app) for global CSS. When migrating, you can copy your CSS imports over directly and update the relative file path, if necessary. Next.js has [built-in CSS support](/docs/basic-features/built-in-css-support).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
With Gatsby, global CSS imports are included in `gatsby-browser.js`. With Next, you should create a [custom `_app.js`](/docs/advanced-features/custom-app.md) for global CSS. When migrating, you can copy over your CSS imports directly and update the relative file path, if necessary. Next.js has [built-in CSS support](/docs/basic-features/built-in-css-support).
```

Reviewer 4: > update the relative file path, if necessary

I don’t understand this part. When is it necessary to update the relative file path? Also, do we need to use `.module.css` naming when we do this?

Author: The `gatsby-browser` file is at the root, whereas `_app.js` is under `pages`. That's why relative paths need to be updated.

## Links

> The Gatsby `Link` and Next.js [`Link`](/docs/api-reference/next/link>) component have a slightly different API. First, you will need to update any import statements referencing `Link` from Gatsby to:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The Gatsby `Link` and Next.js [`Link`](/docs/api-reference/next/link.md) component have a slightly different API. First, you will need to update any import statements referencing `Link` from Gatsby to:
```

```js
import Link from 'next/link'
```

Next, you can find and replace usages of `to="/route"` with `href="/route"`.

## Data Fetching

The largest difference between Gatsby and Next.js is how data fetching is implemented. Gatsby is opinionated with GraphQL being the default strategy for retrieving data across your application. With Next.js, you get to choose which strategy you want (GraphQL is one supported option).

> Gatsby uses the `graphql` tag to query data in the pages of your site. This may include local data, remote data, or information about your site configuration. Gatsby only allows the creation of static pages. With Next.js, you can choose on a [per-page basis](/docs/basic-features/pages) which [data fetching strategy](/docs/basic-features/data-fetching) you want. For example, `getServerSideProps` allows you to do server-side rendering. If you wanted to generate a static site, you'd export `getStaticProps` / `getStaticPaths` inside the page, rather than using `pageQuery`. For example:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Gatsby uses the `graphql` tag to query data in the pages of your site. This may include local data, remote data, or information about your site configuration. Gatsby only allows the creation of static pages. With Next.js, you can choose on a [per-page basis](/docs/basic-features/pages.md) which [data fetching strategy](/docs/basic-features/data-fetching.md) you want. For example, `getServerSideProps` allows you to do server-side rendering. If you wanted to generate a static page, you'd export `getStaticProps` / `getStaticPaths` inside the page, rather than using `pageQuery`. For example:
```

```js
import { getPostBySlug, getAllPosts } from '../lib/blog'

export async function getStaticProps({ params }) {
  const post = getPostBySlug(params.slug)

  return {

>     props: {
>       ...post,
>     },

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    props: post,
```

```js
import fs from 'fs'
import { join } from 'path'
import matter from 'gray-matter'
import { parseISO, format } from 'date-fns'

const postsDirectory = join(process.cwd(), 'content', 'blog')

export function getPostBySlug(slug) {
  const realSlug = slug.replace(/\\.md$/, '')
  const fullPath = join(postsDirectory, `${realSlug}.md`)
  const fileContents = fs.readFileSync(fullPath, 'utf8')
  const { data, content } = matter(fileContents)
  const date = format(parseISO(data.date), 'MMMM dd, yyyy')

  return { slug: realSlug, frontmatter: { ...data, date }, content }
}

export function getAllPosts() {
  const slugs = fs.readdirSync(postsDirectory)
  const posts = slugs.map((slug) => getPostBySlug(slug))

  return posts
}

> ```

Reviewer 4: You mentioned "`getStaticProps` / `getStaticPaths` to read from the file system" on the previous paragraph but never showed those functions here. I think it’d be helpful to add them:

```js
import remark from "remark"
import html from "remark-html"

export async function getStaticProps({ params }) {
  const post = getPostBySlug(params.slug)
  const content = await remark().use(html).process(post.content || "").toString()

  return {
    props: {
      ...post,
      content
    },
  }
}

export async function getStaticPaths() {
  const posts = getAllPosts()

  return {
    paths: posts.map(post => {
      return {
        params: {
          slug: post.slug,
        },
      }
    }),
    fallback: false,
  }
}

```

Author: Previously, the code snippet is showing `getAllPosts` and `getPostsBySlug` and not defining them. This code snippet completes that and provides a more complete example 👍  I want to show parsing front matter and dates extracted into the library functions.

Author: Ahhh, okay I see what you mean now. Adding!

## Site Configuration

With Gatsby, your site's metadata (name, description, etc) is located inside `gatsby-config.js`. This is then exposed through the GraphQL API and consumed through a `pageQuery` or a static query inside a component.

With Next.js, we recommend creating a config file similar to below. You can then import this file anywhere without having to use GraphQL to access your site's metadata.

```js
// src/config.js

export default {
  title: 'Starter Blog',
  author: {
    name: 'Lee Robinson',
    summary: 'who loves Next.js.',
  },
  description: 'A starter blog converting Gatsby -> Next.',
  social: {
    twitter: 'leeerob',
  },
}
```

## Search Engine Optimization

> Most Gatsby examples use `react-helmet` to assist with adding `meta` tags for proper SEO. With Next.js, we recommend using [`next/head`](/docs/api-reference/next/head) to add `meta` tags to your `<head />` element. For example, here's part of an SEO component with Gatsby:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Most Gatsby examples use `react-helmet` to assist with adding `meta` tags for proper SEO. With Next.js, we recommend using [`next/head`](/docs/api-reference/next/head.md) to add `meta` tags to your `<head />` element. For example, here's part of an SEO component with Gatsby:
```

```js
// src/components/seo.js

import { Helmet } from 'react-helmet'

> return (

Reviewer 4: Where’s the component function?

  <Helmet
    title={title}
    titleTemplate={siteTitle ? `%s | ${siteTitle}` : null}
    meta={[
      {
        name: `description`,
        content: metaDescription,
      },
      {
        property: `og:title`,
        content: title,
      },
      {
        property: `og:description`,
        content: metaDescription,
      },
      {
        property: `og:type`,
        content: `website`,
      },
      {
        name: `twitter:card`,
        content: `summary`,
      },
      {
        name: `twitter:creator`,
        content: twitter,
      },
      {
        name: `twitter:title`,
        content: title,
      },
      {
        name: `twitter:description`,
        content: metaDescription,
      },
    ]}
  />
)
```

And here's the same example using Next.js, including reading from a site config file.

```js
// src/components/seo.js

import Head from 'next/head'
import config from '../config'

> const SEO = ({ description, title }) => {

Reviewer 4: Could we use `function` instead? We’ve been using `function` throughout the docs.

```suggestion
export default function SEO({ description, title }) {
```

  const metaDescription = description || config.description
  const siteTitle = config.title

  return (
    <Head>
      <title>{`${title} | ${siteTitle}`}</title>
      <meta name="robots" content="follow, index" />
      <meta content={metaDescription} name="description" />
      <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
      <meta property="og:title" content={title} />
      <meta property="og:description" content={metaDescription} />
      <meta property="og:site_name" content={siteTitle} />
      <meta property="twitter:card" content="summary" />
      <meta property="twitter:creator" content={config.social.twitter} />
      <meta property="twitter:title" content={title} />
      <meta property="twitter:description" content={metaDescription} />
    </Head>
  )
}

> export default SEO

Reviewer 4: This line can be removed once we use `function`.

```

> ## Conclusion
> 
> React frameworks share many core pieces and make it easy to transition between each other. While the APIs and components may vary, the underlying ideas and implementation share similar roots and provide an easy path for migration. To view an example converting a Gatsby project to Next.js, review this [pull request](https://github.com/leerob/gatsby-to-nextjs/pull/1).

Reviewer 4: I think the first sentences don’t add much value. Maybe we can keep it simple:

```suggestion
## Learn more

Please take a look at [this pull request](https://github.com/leerob/gatsby-to-nextjs/pull/1) to learn more. If you have questions, please ask on [our discussion board](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/discussions).
```

```js
import Link from 'next/link'
```

Next, you can find and replace usages of `to="/route"` with `href="/route"`.

## Data Fetching

The largest difference between Gatsby and Next.js is how data fetching is implemented. Gatsby is opinionated with GraphQL being the default strategy for retrieving data across your application. With Next.js, you get to choose which strategy you want (GraphQL is one supported option).

Gatsby uses the `graphql` tag to query data in the pages of your site. This may include local data, remote data, or information about your site configuration. Gatsby only allows the creation of static pages. With Next.js, you can choose on a [per-page basis](/docs/basic-features/pages.md) which [data fetching strategy](/docs/basic-features/data-fetching.md) you want. For example, `getServerSideProps` allows you to do server-side rendering. If you wanted to generate a static page, you'd export `getStaticProps` / `getStaticPaths` inside the page, rather than using `pageQuery`. For example:

```js

> import remark from 'remark'

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
// Install `remark` and `remark-html`
import remark from 'remark'
```

  const content = await remark()
    .use(html)
    .process(post.content || '')
    .toString()

  return {
    props: {
      ...post,
      content,
    },
  }
}

export async function getStaticPaths() {
  const posts = getAllPosts()

  return {
    paths: posts.map((post) => {
      return {
        params: {
          slug: post.slug,
        },
      }
    }),
    fallback: false,
  }
}
```

You'll commonly see Gatsby plugins used for reading the file system (`gatsby-source-filesystem`), handling markdown files (`gatsby-transformer-remark`), and so on. For example, the popular starter blog example has [15 Gatsby specific packages](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby-starter-blog/blob/master/package.json). Next takes a different approach. It includes common features like [image optimization](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/discussions/17141) directly inside the framework, and gives the user full control over integrations with external packages. For example, rather than abstracting reading from the file system to a plugin, you can use the native Node.js `fs` package inside `getStaticProps` / `getStaticPaths` to read from the file system.

```js

> import fs from 'fs'
> import { join } from 'path'
> import matter from 'gray-matter'
> import { parseISO, format } from 'date-fns'

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
// Install gray-matter and date-fns
import matter from 'gray-matter'
import { parseISO, format } from 'date-fns'
import fs from 'fs'
import { join } from 'path'
```

> const postsDirectory = join(process.cwd(), 'content', 'blog')

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
// Add markdown files in `content/blog` under the root directory
const postsDirectory = join(process.cwd(), 'content', 'blog')
```

  return (
    <Helmet
      title={title}
      titleTemplate={siteTitle ? `%s | ${siteTitle}` : null}
      meta={[
        {
          name: `description`,
          content: description,
        },
        {
          property: `og:title`,
          content: title,
        },
        {
          property: `og:description`,
          content: description,
        },
        {
          property: `og:type`,
          content: `website`,
        },
        {
          name: `twitter:card`,
          content: `summary`,
        },
        {
          name: `twitter:creator`,
          content: twitter,
        },
        {
          name: `twitter:title`,
          content: title,
        },
        {
          name: `twitter:description`,
          content: description,
        },
      ]}
    />
  )
}
```

And here's the same example using Next.js, including reading from a site config file.

```js
// src/components/seo.js

import Head from 'next/head'
import config from '../config'

export default function SEO({ description, title }) {
  const siteTitle = config.title

  return (
    <Head>
      <title>{`${title} | ${siteTitle}`}</title>

>       <meta name="robots" content="follow, index" />
>       <meta content={description} name="description" />

Reviewer 4: Why did you add `"follow, index"`? Can we remove it?

```suggestion
      <meta name="description" content={description} />
```

    "react-dom": "latest"
  }
}
```

## Static Assets and Compiled Output

Gatsby uses the `public` directory for the compiled output, whereas Next.js uses it for static assets. Here are the steps for migration ([view diff](https://github.com/leerob/gatsby-to-nextjs/pull/1/files#diff-a084b794bc0759e7a6b77810e01874f2)):

- Remove `.cache/` and `public` from `.gitignore` and delete both directories.
- Rename Gatsby’s `static` directory as `public`.
- Add `.next` to `.gitignore`.

## Creating Routes

Both Gatsby and Next support a `pages` directory, which uses [file-system based routing](/docs/routing/introduction.md). Gatsby's directory is `src/pages`, which is also [supported by Next.js](/docs/advanced-features/src-directory.md).

Gatsby creates dynamic routes using the `createPages` API inside of `gatsby-node.js`. With Next, we can use [Dynamic Routes](/docs/routing/dynamic-routes.md) inside of `pages` to achieve the same effect. Rather than having a `template` directory, you can use the React component inside your dynamic route file. For example:

- **Gatsby:** `createPages` API inside `gatsby-node.js` for each blog post, then have a template file at `src/templates/blog-post.js`.

> - **Next:** Create `pages/blog/[slug].js` which contains the blog post template. The value of `slug` is accessible through a [query parameter](/docs/routing/dynamic-routes.md). For example, the route `/blog/first-post` would forward the query object `{ 'slug': 'first-post' }` to `pages/blog/[slug].js` ([learn more here](/docs/basic-features/data-fetching.md#getstaticpaths-static-generation`)).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Next:** Create `pages/blog/[slug].js` which contains the blog post template. The value of `slug` is accessible through a [query parameter](/docs/routing/dynamic-routes.md). For example, the route `/blog/first-post` would forward the query object `{ 'slug': 'first-post' }` to `pages/blog/[slug].js` ([learn more here](/docs/basic-features/data-fetching.md#getstaticpaths-static-generation)).
```

```js
// src/pages/[slug].js

// Install remark and remark-html
import remark from 'remark'
import html from 'remark-html'
import { getPostBySlug, getAllPosts } from '../lib/blog'

export async function getStaticProps({ params }) {
  const post = getPostBySlug(params.slug)
  const content = await remark()
    .use(html)
    .process(post.content || '')
    .toString()

  return {
    props: {
      ...post,
      content,
    },
  }
}

export async function getStaticPaths() {
  const posts = getAllPosts()

  return {
    paths: posts.map((post) => {
      return {
        params: {
          slug: post.slug,
        },
      }
    }),
    fallback: false,
  }
}
```

> You'll commonly see Gatsby plugins used for reading the file system (`gatsby-source-filesystem`), handling markdown files (`gatsby-transformer-remark`), and so on. For example, the popular starter blog example has [15 Gatsby specific packages](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby-starter-blog/blob/master/package.json). Next takes a different approach. It includes common features like [image optimization](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/discussions/17141) directly inside the framework, and gives the user full control over integrations with external packages. For example, rather than abstracting reading from the file system to a plugin, you can use the native Node.js `fs` package inside `getStaticProps` / `getStaticPaths` to read from the file system.

Reviewer 3: This shouldn't be merged if it mentions Image Optimization because it's currently not released and merging this changes would block the release of documentation updates until then.

  const realSlug = slug.replace(/\\.md$/, '')
  const fullPath = join(postsDirectory, `${realSlug}.md`)
  const fileContents = fs.readFileSync(fullPath, 'utf8')
  const { data, content } = matter(fileContents)
  const date = format(parseISO(data.date), 'MMMM dd, yyyy')

  return { slug: realSlug, frontmatter: { ...data, date }, content }
}

export function getAllPosts() {
  const slugs = fs.readdirSync(postsDirectory)
  const posts = slugs.map((slug) => getPostBySlug(slug))

  return posts
}
```

## Site Configuration

With Gatsby, your site's metadata (name, description, etc) is located inside `gatsby-config.js`. This is then exposed through the GraphQL API and consumed through a `pageQuery` or a static query inside a component.

With Next.js, we recommend creating a config file similar to below. You can then import this file anywhere without having to use GraphQL to access your site's metadata.

```js
// src/config.js

export default {
  title: 'Starter Blog',
  author: {
    name: 'Lee Robinson',
    summary: 'who loves Next.js.',
  },
  description: 'A starter blog converting Gatsby -> Next.',
  social: {
    twitter: 'leeerob',
  },
}
```

## Search Engine Optimization

> Most Gatsby examples use `react-helmet` to assist with adding `meta` tags for proper SEO. With Next.js, we recommend using [`next/head`](/docs/api-reference/next/head.md) to add `meta` tags to your `<head />` element. For example, here's part of an SEO component with Gatsby:

Reviewer 3: We don't recommend anything else afaik

```suggestion
Most Gatsby examples use `react-helmet` to assist with adding `meta` tags for proper SEO. With Next.js, we use [`next/head`](/docs/api-reference/next/head.md) to add `meta` tags to your `<head />` element. For example, here's how a SEO component with Gatsby looks like:
```

        {
          name: `twitter:creator`,
          content: twitter,
        },
        {
          name: `twitter:title`,
          content: title,
        },
        {
          name: `twitter:description`,
          content: description,
        },
      ]}
    />
  )
}
```

And here's the same example using Next.js, including reading from a site config file.

```js
// src/components/seo.js

import Head from 'next/head'
import config from '../config'

export default function SEO({ description, title }) {
  const siteTitle = config.title

  return (
    <Head>
      <title>{`${title} | ${siteTitle}`}</title>
      <meta name="description" content={description} />
      <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
      <meta property="og:title" content={title} />
      <meta property="og:description" content={description} />
      <meta property="og:site_name" content={siteTitle} />
      <meta property="twitter:card" content="summary" />
      <meta property="twitter:creator" content={config.social.twitter} />
      <meta property="twitter:title" content={title} />
      <meta property="twitter:description" content={description} />
    </Head>
  )
}
```

## Learn more

> Please take a look at [this pull request](https://github.com/leerob/gatsby-to-nextjs/pull/1) to learn more. If you have questions, please ask on [our discussion board](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/discussions).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Please take a look at [this pull request](https://github.com/leerob/gatsby-to-nextjs/pull/1) for more details on how an app can be migrated from Gatsby to Next.js. If you have questions or this guide didn't work for you, feel free to reach out to our community on [GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/discussions).
```
